where is the meat of the pattern how do
we know that what's going on everyone
and welcome back to another episode of
paint society the channel where the
learning doesn't stop when the video
ends today
we have a great one for you a really
important basic how to set up your gun
to paint a car or any automotive part so
let's go ahead let's jump right into the
booth I got a little chart setup for you
or going to learn some stuff today okay
class for today what we're gonna be
doing is we're going to be utilizing
this chart we're gonna learn about fan
fluid in air the three basic most
adjustments we will need in order to get
a good spray pattern once we learn it
we're going to apply it right away onto
our bumper that is the easiest and the
best way I feel it is for you guys to
learn so we can see exactly what we're
doing we're gonna show you how the paint
goes on we're gonna zoom in on the paint
and show you what's going on
alright so let's get started today what
we're going to be using is a sealer
first because that is what the bumper
will need so let's first get familiar
with our paint gun on our paint gun we
have first our pressure air comes in
through the bottom it goes through the
whole paint gun it atomizes the paint to
be released through the nozzle and onto
your panel so air is very important but
we're not going to adjust air just yet
the first thing that we're gonna do is
take a look at what do all these now
it's me I chose the GTI pro light
because it is a very traditional gun and
it matches many other guns that are on
the market now and all basic guns are
very similar on the bottom we have the
air adjustment valve I keep this
completely open all right so you can put
it all the way in and then turn it all
the way out that stays completely open
next up we have our fluid now that I
have my PPS with the sealer out I can
show you how we set it up and what a
good base line is so first I'm gonna
squeeze my handle all the way in and I'm
gonna back out this and just until it
comes off all right if it comes off we
put it right back on now I'm gonna turn
this until I get resistance okay at this
point right here and it stopped moving
okay if I were to release just trigger
it would keep moving so let's back it
out once more pull the trigger and we
turn it it is stopped moving this
setting right here is called wide open
the fluid is now at a wide open setting
and we can adjust from wide open so we
can do one turn from wide open
two turns from wide open I like to
adjust one turn at a time so let's kick
this back out so wide open once more
trigger crust turning to the right which
is clockwise until it stops now this is
our fan control right on top it is
different from our fluid and it controls
how wide the pattern is okay so some
fans can be super wide some fans can be
a little bit small and I'll show you
what fan means on the board in just a
moment for here we keep it all the way
out and we can just give it a little bit
of a quarter of a turn just to clean up
our edges now let's apply what we've
learn through the charm we just
discussed fan fluid and air once again
we have our air we have our fluid and we
have our fan you keep this wide open and
we adjust from here free now we're gonna
put our air right around 22 now just
because it's at 29 now does not
necessarily mean it's gonna spray at 29
you want to just your air when you have
your trigger cooled at least half way
speaking of which when you pull it
halfway only air comes out if you pull
it more you have your fluid coming out
so this right here is the pattern we're
gonna discuss now this is how we want
our pattern to look it should never be
top-heavy or bottom heavy we want to be
about this much away from the panel so
to do that you're gonna take your pinky
and your thumb and you're gonna put your
middle fingers down and that is the
distance just about that you want to be
from your panel okay from that distance
we are gonna recreate this spray pattern
right here at about 23 psi as we can see
now they are very similar if it was
white on top or white on the bottom and
thin in the middle that means that these
little holes right here are not cleaned
out and they're not allowing the air to
spray properly to demonstrate that I'm
gonna plug up one of these little holes
with tape so right now we put a little
piece of tape right there and we're
gonna try to represent what it would be
like if you had not cleaned up your gun
and watch my video on how to properly
clean a gun
take a look at the pattern out you see
on the bottom how it's much wider than
the top at the bottom you can see it's
kind of thick and what that would mean
is you could possibly have too much
fluid going towards the bottom and that
type of thing could give you a run on
one of your panels huh
let's remove it and let's try again now
with it removed let's take a look at
we'll see what our pattern looks like we
have one correct pattern one correct
pattern and one pattern that kind of
goes off to the side and is fat on the
bottom over here we have a nice pattern
like I said because it's nice and even
so that could come just from having a
paint gun that is not clean
now let's discuss when we can use our
fan and dial it in and what some of the
capabilities of the actual gun are what
we're going to be doing now is turning
our fan all the way in now when you're
turning your fan in your pressure
actually raises well it doesn't actually
raised on a gauge but you're sending so
much more feet to a small area rather
than spreading it out on a fan remember
a wide fan is like this when you dial it
all the way in you're taking all that
paint and bringing it down into one
little circle so you can run it really
easy let me show you what a all-the-way
turn in fan looks like now we're gonna
represent that dot right next to it
just like that so just by turning that
in that's what happens now let's turn it
out about one turn from the fan getting
a little bit bigger
another turn a little bit bigger let's
turn it out just a little bit more a
little bit bigger so this is pretty much
your fan okay then we dial it all the
way in and we turn down our pressure and
we turn in our fluid we can almost get
really creative with it because if it
can become so very fine
did you guys see that I barely triggered
it okay you don't have to pull it all
the way you can barely pull it and it
kind of is like a little bit of an
airbrush so if you got an area that you
need to kind of just blow in air at the
corner of the door where he maybe you
burn through you can kind of open up
your fan a little bit you can turn in
your fluid and you can lower your
pressure just it on now all about it's
fun right but this it really good is it
really gonna help you to write your name
on a car yeah it might be pretty cool
but we need to know where we should be
spraying when we have our gun optimized
for the perfect settings where is the
meat of the pattern how do we know that
well let's go back to our initial
settings that I taught you before
remember
fan wide-open give it a little bit of
turn to kind of clean up that that those
edges take your fluid and I'm gonna do
it upside down I'm gonna disconnect my
air I'm gonna do upside down so the
fluid doesn't come out the gun I'm gonna
turn it all the way out I'm gonna hold
that trigger once more I'm going to push
it in turn it in until it stops I'm wide
open I'm right where I want to be you're
gonna play around with the air pressure
with the fan remember you need enough
air to fill that fan let's talk about a
WS 400 for instance that gun has a huge
fan if
have enough air it won't fill up the fan
and you'll have just a lot of dry spray
going into the air now that we have our
gun all set up let's make believe that
our panel is just about here where we
want our meat of the pit of the actual
fan to be where it's the best
optimization the best itemization is
right in that area which is why we use
this distance so if we're spraying we
should be right around here and we want
this area right here where you're
spraying this far away we're only
getting a dust but if our panel is right
here we are getting what matters most
and what matters most is that thick
block of atomization watch it right here
too far away
look we got inconsistent spray pattern
now let's go just at the right distance
do you see the difference in the spray
pattern do you see how beautiful is now
let's apply it right here
okay so we just applied what we learned
here with air pressure fluid in your fan
and we apply it to our bumper so we took
our chart and now we're applying it to
see work in real life
let's take a look
so what we have here is we just sprayed
our sealer now this will drive flat and
then we have the edge of our fan now we
like to have a very nice soft edge and
look at the droplet size do you see how
fine they are okay let's make believe
that we've had a lower pressure remember
that video on how does break their coat
and I discussed atomization and how big
droplets do not like each other and they
just kind of sit out there and we want
fine chocolates well that is exactly
what we have here so what I'll do now is
I'll continue that about 80% overlap
over the whole bumper take a look at
those fine droplets nice and smooth just
what we want remember this is a sealer
so what I'll do is I'll continue to
finish this I'll show you what it looks
like when it's all done alright so I
really hope that this gun setup video
helped you as you can see our bumper
here is nicely painted it is completely
flat because we had a nice consistent
fan and fluid control paired with our
air pressure thanks to the charm if you
guys have any further questions make
sure you drop a line down in the
comments give me some time I always get
back to my comments and this is Brian
from King decided to remind of you don't
overthink it it's just paint I'll see
you guys in the next one
[Music]